
# vapour.js
## an in-browser, peer-to-peer distributed datastore in pure js

### why rely on someone else's cloud when you just have a bit of data?

Don't you like sunny days better than cloudy ones?  With all the hype
around "cloud computing" we have lost sight of what cloud computing
gives us versus what we really need. 

Often we (web developers) want to build an app that just stores a bit
of personal data somewhere, in a way that it can be accessed by the
user anywhere later.  Some but not all of us, have the
resources/knowledge/time to find a server to host a database for us.

Most of us have a lot of extra machines hanging around, and many of
them have persistent connections to the Web.  Heck, our smartphones
probably have enough computational resources and bandwidth to host
this data for us. Why don't we just use these devices?

### let's build our own cloud - a browser at a time

This sounds like a terrible idea, and it probably is.  This library
is merely a proof of concept inspired by Bittorrent that allows
everyone's browser who accesses your webpage to participate in a giant
distributed data store, so that everyone can participate in helping
one another store their little bits of information.

### cloudbusting

by starting to build tools to replace the Cloud infrastructure, we 
can start to take back the Web to its original ideals: free, open
communication, run by us, for one another.

Musical inspiration:
[Cloudbusting](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IRHA9W-zExQ
"Cloudbusting") or [Something
good](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oMLCrzy9TEs "Something good")
(the same song!) or [Eben
Moglen](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QOEMv0S8AcA "Eben Moglen -
freedom in the cloud") for some real inspiration.

### credits

- Code and concept : [electronic Max](http://hip.cat/emax)
- Cloudstorming concept : [mc schraefel](http://users.ecs.soton.ac.uk/mc/)





